We've got to educate a lot more folks or we're going to cut our feet out from under us.
Is there anything you can think of we could and what A&M has been doing that we don't need to do anymore and are there some new things we ought to be doing or some different emphases?
Well, I think we need to put more emphasis on character building.
We talk a big story about Honesty and the Honor Code at A&M, but it's rather hollow at times.
I've seen it firsthand.
I agree with you.
And we make a big talk about that.
And I used to make little speeches.
I hear a lot about leadership, but I don't hear much about character.
And Ray Bowen has picked up on character.
I applaud him for that.
I think it's an area that we've got to do a lot more on.
I think the alcohol problem here is something that, it's a real tough one.
But it's, we're not a lot different to most other schools, but alcohol is a problem.
And the core, I never saw drugs as much of a problem over there.
I think they have a way of kind of assuring that drugs don't become a major factor there.
Not that there haven't been some, but alcohol is a major, major problem.
In some areas A&M does pretty good here, football games for example.
Our crowds, I'm so proud of them.
After the ball game, you can leave when we've beaten or lost a tough opponent.
Say we win big.
I don't hear the boasting and carrying on that I hear at other places.
I remember going to LSU a few years ago, and that was, golly, such a disappointment.
I've never seen such an unruly crowd, and I thought, my, I'm glad we're not in this mode.
You know, they start celebrating on Thursday and everybody gets drunk before the game.
But I see some of that trying to creep in here.
And there are people who think you've got to have alcohol at everything or you can't be a success.
You can't raise money.
You can't do this if you don't have alcohol at all these things.
But again, our crowds are the most mature crowds I've seen at football games.
That says something very good about A&M.
There's not a lot of drinking.
I'm not saying there's none.
There probably is.
There is, I know, but not like at other places.
But how we do that, now I've argued that we ought to be alcohol free on campus in the dorms and all.
I think we ought to take a stand, but that's a big step.
That's one thing I think we might want to do.
Some schools have that today.
But, you know, we're having some alcohol-free floors and dorms and all.
I think that's a good move, but it's going to be a tough one.
But the alcohol thing is pretty far out of control.
Some of the traditions
can get carried too far, in my opinion.
Tradition is good.
If you don't have some other guide, it's a pretty good thing to stick with, and it does build a lot of positive things, but tradition carried too far can be a negative thing, and I've seen that in the core.
Tradition gets ahead of integrity, and I say there's no
It's not even close.
Integrity comes before tradition.
But, you know, how we balance all that is a real $24 question.
I think Dr. Bowen has done a good job with doing all of that.
And some of it you go along with.
And another thing that I would tell people, you got to remember, you got to think like an 18-year-old does sometimes.
And as older people, we have a very hard time doing that.
I've seen it in the core that, you know, what they're interested in and what motivates them and all these little traditions do.
So, you know, I think they're, you got to recognize that.
But my only concern is that over the traditions is that sometimes they're carried to an extreme and they become negative and things get out of priority.
The bonfire, there's a lot of positives with the bonfire, but I've seen enough negatives that it concerns me that, you know, we got to keep some perspective and balance in that.
If you could make a major gift to A&M, somebody shows up and hands you a check for a huge amount of money and it's to be passed on to A&M, but you decide what it's to be used for, what would it be?
Well, that's interesting since I'm in fundraising and I've had a, not maybe the size you're talking about, but I've had some people contact me and say, you know, where can we put this?
Well, I'm working primarily for the Corps and scholarships is the thing that I've.
But if you were deciding.
If I was the president?
No, no, no.
If I were the president?
Oh, if I'm the giver.
You're the giver.
Yeah.
Where would you put it?
At A&M?
What would you want it used for?
Hmm.
Well, again, you know, it'd be based on my past experiences and interest and all.
And with my background and interest, I would like to see there's a thing we've been working on here lately.
I've been involved for eight long years now trying to move this thing forward.
And it's a leadership enhancement program for the Corps.
And it's a vision that
some of us have had for a long time that would really upgrade the quality of leadership and character training in the core.
It put leadership on a very formal, structured basis where the structures are all trained, they have lessons plans, they have training aids.
It's not, Joe, go over there and teach ethics today.
There's something much beyond that that might even offer you some kind of credential when you're through.
that you've done something in the leadership area that makes you a little better qualified than the average graduate.
But a leadership endowment here, we're looking at eight to ten million dollars for such a program that would have a head that's got academic credentials.
It's got broad respect across the board.
You know, that's the kind of program we've kind of been dreaming about for a while.
And if I could find one big donor to give to that, I'd be tickled pink.
And you're inferring if you had the capability, you would be proud to be.
Yeah.
I think scholarships are great too, endowed scholarships.
And my experience with donors, there's nothing that tickles their fancy more than scholarships because there's a student on the other end that they can relate to.
It's not like bricks and mortar.
That's right.
Programs that are vague.
Looking back on your student years, to whom are you most grateful for what you learned during those years?
What people?
At A&M you're talking about?
Well, you know, people I've already named, I guess, are the key ones.
But there were other professors that I felt very good about.
But J.R.
Jackson would have been my number one person that had a— He was in ag— He was ag ed.
He was an ag ed professor.
You know, I didn't know him personally, but he was a guy that ran this basic division program that I thought he did a good job.
It helped get me straightened out in a lot of ways.
Coaches, you know.
I really, you know, wouldn't single out as one of those, but there's got to be other folks that I could list here.
I'd have to think about it a little bit.
We can get that when we get this typed up.
I've got one more question other than have we left out any major topics from your student years?
Let's see.
I thought of one a moment ago.
Now, let me see.
What was it?
Because I gather from you that it was a comparatively straight path.
You didn't have any big waverings and there were no major tragedies either personally or during, to the campus during that time.
No.
You didn't have to turn around and go in another direction and there wasn't much money but yet you were still able to proceed.
Didn't have to drop out or anything like that.
Let's go ahead and do the last one then for, this is what I end with with everyone.
What feelings do you carry in your heart for Texas A&M today?
How do you feel about this place?
Very good.
And I think a good example, I don't want anything negative, bad happening to A&M or A&M people.
It tears me apart.
when I see bad things happening.
I'm so proud of it.
I want it to be good and everything about it good.
That's not gonna be, I know, but when incidents and bad problems come up, I'm disturbed by that.
Only because I love the place so much and want it to be so good.
But, you know,
I've had plenty of opportunity to talk about A&M over my years and I always try to put a very positive spin on everything I'm talking about A&M and I talk with pride to other people about it and, you know, we've got some weak links and problems but there's plenty of good here.
Let's quit on that.
That's great.